CAPEX : capital expenditure
customer is 100% responsible for : design,csot,build,operations, upgrade and ...
it meas all thing on you,even dont use all resource capacity

OPEX: Operational expenditure ===> how much you use = how much you pay



public cloud : 1) resources are publicly shared
	       2) shared multi tenant infrastructure
	       3)internet connectivity primarily used
	       4) best suited for less confidentional data

private clound: 1) resources are for private use
          	2) for a singe customer,or for corporate busienss unites
		3) connectivity over fiber, private network and internet
		4) best suited for confidentional data, client private systems.


Hybrid Cloud : is a mix of public and on-prem private clouad that is orchestrated to run a single task
note: 1 - hybrid cloud is a more complex cloud solution because organization must manage multiple platforms.
      2 - suitable for cost effectiveness,backup,disaster recovery, development and testing	


Multi-Cloud : use multiple public cloud at same time (for different solutions
and product.)

IaaS(infrastructer as a service),Paas(Platform as a service),Saas(software as a service)(like email)



(search about elastic beanstalk)
Note : root username of your account ===> the email you register with it

Billing and cost management : get report from account and services cost.

we can set alert for cost management in billing and cost management by email and notification.



IAM :
(arn : amazon resource name)
 IAM helps create and manage identities, authentication and authorizatrion of your accounts(s). your account trusts IAM and its decisions for authentication and authorization.

 least of privilage principle : minimum access while your staff can do all their tasks.

- AWS STS (security token service)


eventually consistent : maybe get old data ( lower latency than strong consistency)
strong consistency : should return newest data

User,Groups,Role are the IAM identities

best practice : define the group,add user to the group ===> assign policy to the group.


deny policy is preferred to allow policy

for consoloe login (GUI work) ==> username and password
for programmatic access (cli,cdk,api,...) ==> you should use access and secret key,(create user,then create access and secret keys)

Policies: policies are json file
policies type : 1-managed(built-in) 2-custom permission 

note : when a service want to use another service it should define specific role.!!!

IAM Best practice :

use cloudtrail to log and audit users.(monitor activity).

- its recommend create a user,give it enough permission and do your job with this user and whenever possible : dont use root user.
- use Groups to assign permissions to IAM users.
- Enable MFA for privilege users
- use Roles applications that run on AWS EC@ instances.  ???
- 




 


